Let's first connect to our workstation.
Now that it is connected, let's go to our project directly inside this project, Belker directly.
There is a new directory over here demos, so all the demonstrations that we'll be doing with Docker
containers, they will be dead in.
This was directly.
If you go inside this, there are several directories in here.
The previous demo that we did is dead in zero three territory.
Now what we are going to do is we are going to go in two zero two three deer Docker net directly.
This is where our current demo is.
And likewise, there are more demonstrations there diverted over here.
And as we move along, I'll keep on adding directories over here, which will have art demonstrations.
So now let's first see before going into our current demo directory what's there in the first directory.
So there is a file called Docker Compose Store requirement.
I have moved that Docker compose created document file over here and renamed it to Docker compose store
Diamond.
I have done that so that we don't have to specify the name of the Docker compose file because the default
name is Docker compose store requirement.
So now let's go to our current demonstration directly.
And what do we have over here?
One Docker compose start by a minute and there is another file called Arteon File.
This Dart N.V. file has got environment variable, so all the environment variables that are supposed
to be there in the Docker compose start by email configuration.
I have moved them over here so that are Docker compose file is not cluttered with these environment
variables.
So now let's open Docker compose start by a middle file.
Let's go to the top first.
OK, so if you see the first line over here, it is networks minute one and the name is minute one,
so this is the network that we are creating over here.
So if I just get this and if I check, what are the networks present over here on this machine and that
command would be Doc Network less.
So these are the current networks that are present on this machine.
Similarly, I can't even list the volumes that are present on this machine.
So there are no volumes on this machine.
So now let's go back to our Docker compose file.
So the first thing that this Docker compose file does is it provides configuration to create creator
network named as my note one and does by default.
This will be a bridge network.
It will provide us a DNS as well, and that is the reason we will be able to address our services or
the application through the name.
This DNS will help us in doing that.
The next configuration is our volumes here.
We have given instructions to create three volumes on our local host machine.
So we will have three volumes over here, so one volume is post-credit data, this is where we will
store our database data files, then Postgres logs.
This is then our database logs, files will be stored and then we have app logs volume.
This is where are the application and services when stored their log files.
We could have created separate volumes also for each service, but for convenience sake, I have just
created one volume.
So let's say if we look at this web application.
It points to this volume app logs, and it maps their log or MMS directly to this volume, so any file
that will be created in this container at this particular location will actually go to this particular
volume.
So if we see this, this is the case with every other service related authorization.
So this we have this volume add blocks and that points to their log or statically.
So similarly, we can see for our database database has got two volumes, one four logs and one for
data.
Now let's look at the network.
So if you look at this database, it says that it is there in the minor one network using this network
configuration.
Along with this, we have specified hostname.
There's the oldest name by which this particular container will be known in this particular network.
And then there is a port mapping that we have done.
So this port on the right side is the port within the container and the Docker network, and this is
the port that Docker port will be mapped Buddhist host machine port.
And I'll show you why this may be needed.
This is actually needed only from your host machine or from any external network you want to connect
to a container.
Generally, we do not want to connect to our database from our host machine or outside the network.
But sometimes, let's say if a container is not working and we want to debug, then these ports may
be helpful.
We can use these ports to actually connect to these particular containers.
So similarly, we have this port mapping for every service, and I just show you once we launch our
system.
So now we are ready to launch our system.
So let's first do DC.
Right now, I do not need to specify the Docker compose file because by default, it takes Docker compose
taught by a name.
So the bill is already done, so all our images are built.
So if we look at images, they are all there.
Whatever we need, then the next thing that we need to do is we need to bring up the container.
So I use this command DC up minus Docker compose up minus the.
So like here we see that.
This has created a network, and then it has also created a default network, which it will do just
in case if you do not put a container in Docker network or we do not specify the network mode as host,
in that case it will use this network.
Then it has created those three volumes that we have requested.
It is appended directory names to these volumes.
The reason would be that if we are starting our Docker containers from different directories and we
have these different Docker compose files, then they don't use the same volume.
So it creates different volumes for different Docker compose files in different directories.
So here it is.
Starting are containers, but there is a problem over here.
It hasn't started on PostgreSQL data.
The reason is that there is a port conflict with the Postgres that we have installed on this machine.
So let's have let us look at this.
So I'm going to clear this.
And now let's check what online services are running on this machine, because earlier we installed
Postgres database on this machine as a service.
I think there is a spelling mistake.
OK.
So these are these services running on this machine, and we see that there is a PostgreSQL database
that is installed on this machine and it is running as a service.
So let's stop this.
If you want to see if we can check status like this and we can stop it by using stop command.
And if you check this status now, it would have stopped even if we checked the global status of all
services here, it will show us that this post Chris Askew service is shut down.
So now we should be able to actually start to process containers.
For that, we will do all of DC of minus D, and this time we will give a new post.
Guess?
So this would have started all these services, and some of them would be still starting up so we can
just check that by checking the logs.
Let's check Edmund service.
So it is still coming up.
Yeah, it has come up, it has started.
Similarly, our web application and all whatever else was started.
So we let our system come up fully.
In the meantime, what I'll do is I'll show you the Docker network and volumes that were there were
created.
So let's do this Docker network and less so if you see over here.
This has created this network net one, which we were interested in in terms of type bridge.
Then let's check out the volumes.
Now, there are several volumes over here, the ones which we are interested in is this app logs, Postgres
data and Postgres logs.
So we can even actually check the properties of these volumes.
So let's say let's check the Postgres data.
So does the volume that got created on this particular host machine, and this is where the data is
is stored.
So if you look at what's there in this category, I will need to use sudo root permission.
And if you go to this territory when our host machine, this is where Postgres database, which is running
inside our Docker container, this PostgreSQL data, it has stored its data files in this particular
directory, which is dead or not.
Most machines and these are the files that are stored.
So this is our Docker volumes work.
Now, if I have to give you a feel of how Docker network work, then what we will do is we will connect
to one of the containers.
So let us connect to, let's say, admin service container.
For that, I will use this command Docker to accept my most I.D. and the container name and the command
that we want to execute.
So this will start to bash shell on our admin service.
So the hostname of this container is admin service.
And let's say if you are to ping are Postgres database over here.
So what we can do is we can say Ping, PostgreSQL.
So as you can see, it is going to this particular IP address and this is Vera Postgres databases here.
We do not have to use localhost, like I said earlier, but let's see if I come outside of this container
here.
I can't say ping postgres because there is nothing like that in this particular host network took all
those names like Postgres admin servers project this.
They are valid only within the Docker network, and these containers are running in their Docker network.
So when we go inside a container there, we can access all these containers with their network names.
So outside of that, we cannot use those network names.
But let's say if we want to, let's say, connect to our web application, I want to connect to an SDP
line and I won't say that port number 8000.
And that's his status.
So this will not resolve the host to.
What I have to do is, I'll have to say, localhost now on this localhost.
Notice this that I'm giving the sport 8000.
So I have not started any application on this host machine on Port eight thousand, but I have started
their container in there, as we saw in our Docker compose file, that we had mapped every application
sport to a host port.
So in case of application, we have mapped the application Containers Sport 8000 to this host Machine
Sport 8000.
So this should allow me to connect to my web application.
So as you can see this, I got a response from my web application.
So in this way, if you want to connect to a Docker container, you can use the port mapping.
I once again show you the port mapping.
So this sport mapping is actually helping us in connecting to a web application.
If we do not want to connect in this manner, let's say we want to.
We have log into.
I'll just show you, so let's let's go inside our web application.
VEB and bash.
So we are inside our container right now.
Over here, let's say I want to connect to I want to ping or I want to get a webpage goal isn't a steep
climb, so I'm going to use that.
So let's it admin or let's say, product service and it is running on board.
Exhilarated zero.
I want to get this status.
So if you can see that I have got a response from our product service.
So over here to connect to our product service because I am inside web application container, so here
I can use this new product service.
So I think this should be amply here now.
What this dog owner took is an exit out of this machine and our system should also be running by now.
Not what we should do is we should try to connect to this system through a browser.
So for that, I'll take the IP address of the machine and I'll open a browser tab and we will connect
to this port eight thousand.
And as we saw this spot, eight thousand is mapped to this post machines 40000.
So we'll be able to connect to a container directly over yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here we are able to connect.
We will have to do a login.
So it's that authorization service is running.
We should be able to do a login.
So we were able to log in into our system because our admin service is running so we can even go to
this monitoring Deb and we can monitor.
Let's have databases running, so click this big databases, so it's his processes running.
Similarly, I can bring my services and let's see what response we get.
OK, first time it's going to take time because services are warming up, so we got back response from
services.
There is a ping where also we can bring our web application.
This is useful in case we have multiple Web application instances running, so we know exactly which
instances they're turning back the response.
So this is how we were able to actually start our application and we could run our application using
Docker network, and we have use Docker volumes.
Another thing that we did is that we of this time have set our environment variables in data and Wi-Fi.
So all those environment variables that literally are in our Docker compose file, we have moved them
over here.
So if you look at this are web application right now is pointing to these holes.
So these host configurations are here.
Last time around, we used localhost.
Here we have used different host for all these configurations.
Now these configurations are complicated.
We are going to discuss them in the next topic.
But over here, this is how we have configured our web application to communicate with different services
that we have.
Our admin service also needs to know where are the different services listed.
So this is the configuration to let admin service know where are the different services?
Because the admin service?
We did this Bing services.
So for typing them, it needs to know where they are located.
So that is how we have done our configuration.
And with this, we are actually done with Docker volumes and Docker network.
So we have a good system now which is running using Docker containers.
Now next, we will see how we can enhance this system into a large-scale system.
So slowly, gradually we will add more architectural elements to our application as we move along.